Black & White 2 is a video game developed by Lionhead Studios and published by Electronic Arts. It blends real-time strategy, city building and god game elements. It was released in October 2005. A Mac OS X port was released in January 2009,[1] and released for download via the Mac App Store in November 2014.[2] It is the sequel to 2001's Black & White, also the brainchild of Peter Molyneux. The lead designers are Peter Molyneux and Ron Millar, who previously worked at Blizzard Entertainment on titles such as StarCraft and Warcraft II: Tides of Darkness.

In the game, the player takes the role of a god called from the void (nothingness) to help those who invoked them. However, the player is not an omnipotent style god, but rather a god who rises and falls with his believers and the player must help develop their nature according to their good or evil desires. The player also has a creature, their physical representation in the world, which takes the form of an anthropomorphic ape, lion, wolf, turtle, cow, or tiger. Its physical manifestation can grow to an immense size, and adopt a good or evil persona separate of the player's. They develop their character as the player rewards or punishes their actions. In addition to the god simulation and city-building elements introduced in the original Black & White, Black & White 2 also features elements of real-time strategy gameplay, with the addition of controllable warfare and fighting units.

Black & White 2 also features a more conventional HUD (heads-up display) system than its predecessor. Rather than the experimental HUD-less gameplay seen in the original game, Black & White 2 features HUD notifications that inform players of their creature's state of mind, the effects of their actions on their creature, the status of villages, etc.

The only way the player can interact with this world directly is through the player's hand, with which the player can pick up people, trees, food, and influence the ground. The player can also cast miracles. However, a certain amount of "Prayer Power" (in essence, "Mana") from the player's believers is needed to do this.