Pro Evolution Soccer (PES; Japanese: ワールドサッカーウイニングイレブン Wārudo Sakkā Uining Irebun, World Soccer: Winning Eleven or simply Winning Eleven), is a series of soccer video games developed and published by Konami. It's a spinoff from Konami's earlier International Superstar Soccer series.

Every year, the game is released around late September and/or early October with two different titles: World Soccer: Winning Eleven in Japan & Asia, and Pro Evolution Soccer in Europe, North America & Asia (Indonesia only). The Japanese version is a localized version that features local leagues. Partially as a result of EA Sports' affinity to purchasing exclusive rights for their FIFA series, the games have historically lacked the sheer volume of licenses present in EA's offerings, with the most notable absences being the Premier League and Bundesliga. As such, team jerseys, names and players may be inaccurate.

Cristiano Ronaldo was the face of the franchise, appearing on the front cover in 2008, 2012 and 2013. He has since been replaced by Mario Götze for 2015, then he was replaced by Neymar and Álvaro Morata for 2016.

As of December 2011, the Pro Evolution Soccer franchise has been localized into 19 languages and available in 62 countries. As of December 2012, the series have been sold more than 81.65 million copies worldwide, making it one of the best-selling video game franchises.[1][2]

The Master League mode, gives the user control of a team of user's selection. Originally, the players were all generic-fictional players, however this was later changed giving the user the option to change the settings and choose to play with default players. These players have become cult figures to many people playing the Master League. The aim is to use these players and gain points by winning matches, cups and leagues. Using acquired points to purchase real players to join the team. Ultimately, one should end up with a team of skilled players.

From Winning Eleven 7, players' growth and decline curves were added, where a player's statistics may improve or decline, depending on training and age. This added a new depth to purchasing players, adding value to an up-and-coming youngster whose abilities rise dramatically and creating a trade-off if the player buys skilled but declining veterans.