American Truck Simulator (ATS) is a 2016 vehicle simulation game developed by the Czech company SCS Software and is the parallel video game sequel to Euro Truck Simulator 2. It was unveiled at the Electronic Entertainment Expo 2015 (E3 2015), although it was first announced as being in development in September 2013.[1] The game was released on 2 February 2016.[2]

SCS Software first announced the game on 6 September 2013.[3] It was revealed at E3 in 2015.[4]

On 11 April 2014, SCS Software announced that there will be more than 100 cities in the game and released screenshots of the game. Truck brands included on American Truck Simulator so far are Kenworth and Peterbilt, but more will follow.

SCS plans to eventually include the entire North American continent. On 26 January 2015, SCS Software published a video to YouTube of footage from early alpha of the game. On 18 December 2015, SCS Software announced the official release date for American Truck Simulator, 3 February 2016, on their blog. The game was released 1 day earlier instead.[5]

On 23 June 2016, SCS Software announced that it will edit the size of the in-game environment to increase its size by 75%.[6]

American Truck Simulator is a truck-driving simulator as well as a business management simulator. In the game, players drive trucks and deliver trailer-moved goods to a designated location in order to be compensated with money and experience points. The payload must be delivered to the location speedily within a given amount of time, and with the least amount of damage to the goods as possible, in order to net the most money and experience points possible.

In-game money, after being earned, can be used to purchase more trucks and associated aesthetic, mechanical, and structural upgrades, purchase fuel and repairs for those trucks, take out and repay loans from a bank, as well as hire drivers and purchase garages to house and base them in. The amount of money and experience points earned depends on the length of the delivery in miles traveled and the type of goods being transported. When delivering goods, players can use their own personally-purchased truck or use one provided by an in-game company. When delivering goods using a fleet-provided truck, repairs and other costs are paid for by the company rather than out of the player's in-game fund pool. Experience points can be used to obtain perks, which improve the player's driving ability and what kinds of payloads they can deliver, such as chemicals and explosives, which net a bigger reward when completed successfully.

In addition to driving and delivering goods, the player can also manage a trucking business with hired drivers and owned properties. Hired drivers will perform deliveries on their own, netting the player money. The longer the drivers are hired, the more skillful they will become, thus increasing the amount of money they earn from each delivery. The player can train each driver to focus on a specific area of their driving that can be improved upon.

The game started off at launch with the U.S. states of California and Nevada, and expanded from there, with Arizona being added in May 2016 as part of a free open beta. The state of New Mexico was also announced to be added in February 2017. More U.S. states and parts of Mexico and Canada are expected to be added by the developer in the future.