World of Warships is a naval action-themed massively multiplayer online game produced by international game developer and publisher Wargaming, which is headquartered in Nicosia, Cyprus. The game features aspects similar to World of Tanks and World of Warplanes, having several classes of warships fulfilling different roles within teamed player versus player battles. It was released for Microsoft Windows on September 17, 2015.

The gameplay is team-based. There are four different classes of vessels: destroyers, cruisers, battleships, and aircraft carriers;[4] these vessels span across ten tiers within the technology trees of several nations. The tech trees included the United States Navy, Imperial Japanese Navy, Kriegsmarine, Royal Navy, Soviet Navy, Polish Navy, Republic of China Navy, People's Liberation Army Navy, French Navy and Royal Australian Navy.[5] Through research of each ship from each tier, a player can progress through the game. Each specific ship has a number of modules that can be accessed through experience. This experience is used to unlock modules, and when a ship's modules are completely researched, the player can continue to the next ship and the previous becomes an Elite ship. Submarines and torpedo boats will not be present in World of Warships.[6]


In game screenshot with the HUD visible and a Colorado-class battleship under the player's control, one of many ships the player can acquire through gameplay.
Players are randomly assigned to teams, and generally play with and against similar-tier vessels. The game's co-operative mode involves teams of players battling against computer-controlled opponents, while the random battle mode features teams of human players battling against one another. Battles take place on a limited number of specific maps, each map depicting a specific location with different geographical layouts. Criteria for victory in a given scenario are outlined at the start of play, and typically requires occupying one or more specific locations on a map for a given period of time, or destroying all enemy players. Each vessel has unique strengths and weaknesses, and the likelihood of victory in a given scenario relates directly to the willingness of players to work cooperatively.

Divisions are the equivalent of flights in World of Warplanes and platoons in World of Tanks, and allow a group of three players to join and fight battles together. Clan wars are a planned feature of World of Warships.