Gran Turismo (グランツーリスモ Guran Tsūrisumo?, Italian for "Grand Tourer" or "Grand Touring", abbreviated GT, commonly abbreviated GT1) is a Sim racing video game designed by Kazunori Yamauchi. Gran Turismo was developed by Polys Entertainment and published by Sony Computer Entertainment in 1997 for the PlayStation video game console. The game's development group was established as Polyphony Digital in 1998.

After five years of development time, it was well-received publicly and critically, shipping a total of 10.85 million copies worldwide as of March 2013[6] (making it the best-selling PlayStation game), and scoring an average of 95% in GameRankings' aggregate,[7] making it the highest rated racing video game of all-time.[8] The game has started a series, and to date has spawned over 10 spin-offs and sequels.

Gran Turismo is a racing game. The player must maneuver a car to compete against artificially intelligent drivers on various race tracks. The game uses two different modes: Arcade Mode and Simulation Mode (Gran Turismo Mode in PAL and Japanese versions). In the arcade mode, the player can freely choose the courses and vehicles they wish to use. Winning races unlocks additional cars and courses.

However, simulation mode requires the player to earn different levels of driver's licenses in order to qualify for events, and earn credits (money), trophies and prize cars by winning race championships. Winning one particular championship also unlocks a video and a few additional demonstration tracks. Credits can be used to purchase additional vehicles, and for parts and tuning.

Gran Turismo features 140 cars and 11 race tracks (as well as their reversed versions). Two Honda NSX cars from 1992 were included in the Japanese version, but were removed from the North American and European versions. They can be found in the North American version's code (and are unlockable via a GameShark cheat device). In addition to the hidden del Sols, there is also a 1967 Chevrolet Corvette and a 1998 Mazda Roadster exclusive to the Arcade mode. The Corvette and Roadster can also be accessed via GameShark.